# Hypothyroid-Prediction-using-Machine-Learning-Algorithms
Currently, hypothyroid disorders are more common and widespread among women worldwide. In India, seven out of 10 women are suffering from thyroid problems every day. Therefore, it is necessary to diagnose thyroid problems at the earlier stage. Machine learning (ML) algorithms provide a simple way to solve problems in medical data analysis. Several researchers used various ML algorithms for hypothyroid classification without feature reduction.  Here we proposed three supervised ML namely Random forest, Logistic regression and LightGBM classifier along with feature reduction.  We enhance the results using the LightGBM, with few changes in hyper parameters. The hypothyroid dataset with 3164 instances and 25 features taken from kaggle and experiment is conducted on with (17 features under physician guidance) and without (all 25 features) feature reduction. The novelty in this work is feature reduction with the help of physician guidance and few changes in lightGBM classifier. The overall prediction depends on the target variable which is divided into hypothyroid and normal class. The confusion matrix is a key mechanism to analyse hypothyroidism dataset. Experimental Results shows that Light GBM gives the highest accuracy 99.84% for 25 features and 98.89% for 17 features. Even small changes in accuracy will provide a big impact in medical decision support systems. This proposed lightGBM classifier method can be used for better prediction of hypothyroid disease.
